PALESTINE 36
Tension in Nablus! News!
British crack down on protests.
Sir Amir?
Sir?
Pardon. I thought...
I'm happy to see you!
Come in.
Don't be shy! Come in!
Tell me. how are things?
I'm writing about the situation
in the villages.
How are people feeling?
The mood?
- What?
- What are you wearing?
- Want the neighbours to talk?
- Let them.
- More than they already do?
- Also. that is mine.
Ah?
Wearing it inspires my writing.
Yes. inspires you...
I know. my darling Ahmad.
Don't be annoying!
Can I get Ahmad Canaani inspired?
Now you remember Ahmad?
This is the part
where they educate and elevate us.
The Voice of Jerusalem.
This is Radio Jerusalem.
If we were to slice the pipe open.
we could see both Haifa and Iraq
at the same time. right?
Right?
Maybe.
Careful.
Why are there fences
around the colony?
And why do they come to live here?
Their countries don't want them.
But why?
I don't know.
Why don't they wear trousers?
Let's go home.
Yusuf!
What did you see today in the city?
I saw streetlights
and big buildings.
and so many people.
Hundreds.
How's the Sir's car?
When will you teach me to drive?
When your mother
lets you go to the city.
I will go and never come back.
Did you bring...
A promise is a promise.
Afra!
Come here.
I need you here.
Not going back and forth to the city.
- I know where I am most useful.
- Me too.
By my side.
Tensions are rising between us
and the settlers.
Sakhina village
had their lands confiscated.
Apparently squabbling city folk
are more interesting.
It's the same king on all of them?
He loves a woman
no one approves of.
But why?
She's older than him.
- So?
- Also. she is divorced.
Oh.
Here you go. Father.
Son.
It's enough for today.
Come.
Pass the wine. son.
It's knotted just like sheep wool.
Afra. come sweetheart.
Good night.
Stop that. you.
Why do you go to Jerusalem so often?
I have a job. man.
You don't tell us much about it.
Perhaps there's a romantic reason.
What would a city woman want
with a peasant?
Maybe he reads poetry to her?
My eyes fill with tears
Because of a woman from the city
I hope she notices me
And remembers me
after so many years
No wonder nothing gets done
when men are left on their own.
May God forgive you!
The day is over.
Who wants to work extra?
- I will. I want the work.
- Me.
Grab the barrel!
For J. Kaplan
in Tel Aviv.
The British won't take action.
They won't hold Kaplan responsible.
nor anyone else.
Thirty-three barrels of weapons.
Why do you think
they are arming themselves?
Four factories fired
all the Palestinian workers this month.
My friends. your country and jobs
are being given away.
They're replacing us with Jewish lab our.
Either we stand up for ourselves
or we sit back and watch.
The choice is yours.
Come on. Khalid.
Satisfied?
Thank God.
We could use more men.
I work. and I send money
to my family.
And when you can't?
God provides.
You'd make a strong fighter.
I don't want to fight.
None of us do.
Next.
I worked extra hours.
No overtime. Move on.
They asked us to work overtime.
Next.
- Get out of here.
- I'm talking.
I want to talk to him.
- Get out of here.
- Get your hands off me!
Khalid!
The government refuses our request
to demonstrate.
While the Jewish workers are allowed to.
They get higher pay
and normal working hours. too.
And days off!
- They have a stronger union.
- Half the men were laid off.
How do we feed our families?
We strike!
The choice is yours.
The choice is theirs.
Either bread.
or bullets.
Strike.
CALL FOR ALL:
JOIN THE GENERAL STRIKE
Excuse me.
can I have it when you finish?
- Here you go. sir.
- God bless you.
How do I look?
Do I look stately?
Someone important?
It suits you. sir.
Do you have something nice to wear?
The Muslim Association
needs new members.
Get yourself a nice suit.
- No. no sir!
- Yusuf!
Get yourself a good suit.
Full strike. people.
Sisters and brothers.
my comrades and I
appreciate your generosity and kindness.
- Here you go.
- Long live the revolt.
All of us. rich and poor.
are united in our struggle
for independence and freedom.
God bless you men.
Independence and...
Freedom.
Those could be helpful too. madam.
Let's go. Khalid!
For the revolution.
We hope to repay you. madam.
God give you strength. my friends!
Long live the revolt!
Sugar?
Settlers started a fire!
They're clearing land for a new colony!
Right next to the fields.
Hurry. Nayef!
The land is burning!
- Thank you. Naim.
- You are welcome.
The court has transferred 35 dunums
of village lands to the Jewish colony.
We will no longer be able to access it
effective immediately.
This is theft.
Our leadership has proposed
we establish our own courts.
Rebel run courts?
The British already raid our homes
searching for rebels.
- It's our duty to support them.
- Damn the English.
They've had a boot on our necks
since I was born.
That's why we must stand together.
They were not expecting mass support
of the National Strike.
Those so-called neighbours
came to replace us. not to live with us.
We have always welcomed
people of all faiths to this land.
The English courts have no legitimacy here.
I call for a delegation to speak with our
neighbours without British interference.
Without the English. I agree.
Before the British interfere.
Abu Huda. Abu Nidal. Father Boulos.
Abu Yusuf. Sheikh Yassin.
Father.
This is naive.
Zionists do not negotiate.
they want the land.
I need to go with them.
At least wait until morning.
By morning. the land
will have already been cordoned off.
It's now or never.
Let's go.
The sun is moving fast.
Halt!
Father!
Oh. Father!
Abu Yusuf?
Your name is in heaven. Abu Yusuf.
Your name is in heaven.
They are coming. people!
Where were your men last night?
You!
Where were you?
No one knows anything?
Very well.
Get out of our home!
Get out of here!
Get out!
Leave us alone!
We said get lost!
Can't we bury our dead in peace.
you bastards?
Nayef!
Bunch of killers!
Go ask the settlers who killed my father!
- Nayef! Nayef!
- Nayef!
Yusuf. do something!
Sing for Abu Yusuf. Nayef!
Like this.
See?
This is the right amount.
How are you?
Fine.
Respect the Strike!
Long live the revolt!
Is the rebels' main goal
to remind us of the troubles?
Sir Amir. may I leave?
No.
Perhaps it's better you sleep here.
It's dangerous to travel
at night these days.
Nevertheless. the Arab leadership
has clearly stated their main demands.
A democratic government
is to be established in Palestine.
A stop to the transfer
of Arab land to the Jews.
and an end to
Jewish immigration from Europe.
But our interests are different.
We must separate ourselves
from those national parties.
Lately. I've been asking myself.
is Zionism really so bad for us?
For business?
- Exactly!
- True.
Yusuf.
Would you like to share your opinion?
Well. I...
Tell us about the countryside.
We are losing land daily.
Many farmers have been evicted
from their lands
farmers who worked hard in these lands.
And settlers have taken over.
I understand
it's a difficult time for you all.
but not all villagers pay their debts
to the landowners.
- Wouldn't you agree?
- Right.
People can barely feed their families
these days.
let alone pay debts.
while Zionists are taking our lands.
We must remember that it is we.
the landowners
who own the majority of the land.
And pay the taxes. too.
Thank you. Yusuf.
Have a seat.
I propose we move on.
As you've all heard.
the French and Belgian ambassadors...
No. no!
Yusuf! Yusuf!
Afra. Dear...
We need water.
The rebels sabotaged a patrol.
Despite the threats.
we refused to speak.
Your turn soon. Afra.
Pass it to her.
Drink.
Yusuf!
How are you?
Yusuf Bassawi.
Welcome.
Each village gets ammunition
for protection.
We are fighting for our people.
Our duty is to serve and fight
for a free nation.
We defend civilians at all costs.
Understand?
Puppet Kings?
Puppet Kings. Khuloud?
You can't publish this!
It's the truth.
It sounds atrocious.
Unfortunately.
I didn't pen that description myself.
- Let's be logical.
- Logical?
Accepting British requests
to intervene in ending our strike?
The longest strike in history.
I should add.
They're scared the rebellion
will spread to their countries
and knock them off their thrones.
And our National Committee is different?
Endorsing the General Strike.
who do they think they are?
Who do they think they are?
The leaders of all five Palestinian parties
who represent all our voices
are united and called for the Strike.
We Arabs are shooting ourselves
in the foot.
Some of us feel the National Committee
does not represent our best interests.
Like your Muslim Association?
Isn't unification of all parties
more tactical?
Khuloud.
My love.
I adore you even if we never agree
on anything.
- Our lands are ours.
- Palestine is not for sale.
- Palestine is not for sale!
Palestine was not Balfour's to give.
Palestine was not Balfour's to give!
- Palestine is not for sale.
- Palestine is not for sale!
- Palestine was not Balfour's to give.
- Palestine was not Balfour's to give!
Our lands are ours.
Our lands are ours!
- Palestine is not for sale.
- Palestine is not for sale!
CURFEW RULES
- Here you go.
- Thank you.
Do I smell grape leaves?
We are lucky.
Bon appétit.
The villagers thank you.
My God. look at this. Perfection.
Join us.
Be careful.
The English have more check posts
across the hills.
Our regards to Yusuf.
Thank you. Mother of Afra.
She's a beauty.
Lucky man. Yusuf.
So disrespectful.
This is the widow of a martyr.
We're just talking.
Shame on you.
Take it easy.
Eat.
Look.
The English ban the keffiyeh.
and the street explodes
into a sea of keffiyehs.
Think the paper can pay me
for the last batch of photos?
I'll ask.
I'll pay you this month.
- Can you?
- It's OK.
He's injured.
Careful.
Go. go.
He's safe with us.
The British are in the area.
We don't want any trouble here.
Relax.
You're safe here in the hills.
The rebels are around.
They know how to reach us.
Grape leaves. onions. mint.
Smell the freshness.
- How much?
- Two kurus.
Kurus and a half.
For you only.
Kurus and a half it is.
You're doing well today
with that sweet voice.
- Want to go to the hammam?
- Not today.
Oh. come on.
You always say that.
You could use a bath.
- I'll buy us the bus tickets home.
- So generous!
Watch my things.
She comes back smelling like flowers.
I wonder for who?
You should shoot him.
not shine his shoes.
God keep them far from us.
Hope everyone is as generous today.
Kareem!
I will take you to your father.
The Irgun militia has vowed
to increase activities.
Believe me. trouble is coming.
God bless you.
God bless your children.
God bless the English.
God bless you.
Have some respect for yourself.
Come on. men.
Let's go.
A Turkish beauty.
Someone's been taking care of it
all these years.
Is the bullet there?
Let me have a look.
The bullet is inside.
It's still packed.
What are you doing?
Are you still awake?
What's wrong?
I had a nightmare.
Come here. darling.
Afra.
Come. grandchild.
I want to tell you something.
Do you know where your land is?
Your land is
where your people are buried.
I can teach you how to use that.
It's easy.
But you must know
you have something more powerful
than the entire British Empire.
What is it?
You will know on your own.
You come from a line of brave people
who love this land.
Who's there?
Rabab?
I'm looking for akoub.
At this hour?
Can I help?
No. I need to get back.
I didn't realise how late it is.
Alright.
- Goodbye.
You hid it?
Good night. daughter.
Good night.
Want to buy?
Thank you. dear.
Want to buy. sir?
Want to buy?
Just for you.
Careful.
Soldiers are everywhere.
It's safe here.
Son.
You're late.
We missed the bus.
I got here as fast as I could.
Don't forget.
He hears everything.
I'm sorry.
We'll just make it before curfew.
Let's go.
The beauty of nature.
No matter
how strong man thinks he is.
nature always shows
God's true strength.
Why do people confess to you?
To acknowledge their sins
and obtain forgiveness.
From you?
From God.
Only God can forgive.
Are they bad people?
We are all sinners.
When one is truly sorry
for their sins.
they seek forgiveness
in His divine light.
What's wrong?
Give me your hand.
Bite as hard as you can.
Bite.
Stronger. Stronger.
Oi!
I won.
Do you know why?
Because I endured longer.
not because I'm stronger.
You need to endure.
so you can win in the end.
Did I hurt you? I'm sorry. son.
Forgive me.
Remember
God protects us.
How are you?
How am I?
What's that article you asked me
to have published?
He's a new writer. I'm helping him.
What do you mean? Did you read it?
Kind of.
It's ridiculous. Full of propaganda.
It's a pro-Zionist article.
It's just words and opinions.
What words and opinions?
Something everyone is entitled to.
Who is this Anwar Yacoub?
I told you. a young writer.
I want to meet him.
- You can't.
- Why not?
Everyone has their reasons for privacy.
- Mm-hmm.
- And it should be respected.
You of all people know that. Khuloud.
or rather Ahmad Canaani.
- Ahmad Canaani?
- Mm-hmm.
You know very well
that without this name.
no one will publish
or read my articles.
I know.
Perhaps Anwar also has his reasons.
Fine.
I challenge him
to a public debate in the paper.
Each writes a column
in response to the other.
I'll propose the idea.
AHMAD CANAANI
RESPONDS TO ANWAR YACOUB
"The whole country is suspended.
"The Peel Commission continues.
"and we hold our breath.
"Even our rebels wait in anticipation
"that freedom is closer than ever.
"Chaim Weizmann.
friend to the British ruling class
"is currently the main witness
before the Peel Commission."
"So far. he has appeared five times
at the Palace Hotel in Jerusalem"
"to meet with the commissioners."
They're from Jerusalem?
They're from me.
Can you keep a secret?
Khalid?
Wait for me here.
Who's our friend?
He's a boy from our village.
His name is Kareem.
How's your mother been?
She's with my grandfather.
He hasn't been well.
- Hope he feels better.
- Thank you.
We have to be careful these days.
Right. Kareem?
Why do you bring Khalid food?
Because he protects us.
God protects us.
Come! Come!
The English are picnicking!
They have cake!
So what?
I'll get it.
Kareem. hurry.
I need help.
My brother is still in prison.
Yusuf. you need to be careful.
The leadership is calling for the rebels
to lay down their arms.
In whose interest is that?
We're weak.
Let's wait. gather our strength
and come back stronger.
Wait for what?
Amir's friends to sell us out?
The Peel Commission results
will be announced tonight.
Dyala and Maher are bringing
that dreadful cousin with them for dinner.
I saw Thomas this afternoon.
and insisted he come celebrate with us.
You're giving Anwar Yacoub
a run for his money in the papers.
Nothing like a good debate!
Do you need money?
Everyone needs money.
Are you in debt?
Are you in trouble?
What are you talking about?
Why does
the Zionist Commission pay you?
I don't... What do you mean?
I'm the one that's confused.
I want you to explain.
It's complicated.
Um...
They... The Zionist Commission
founded the Muslim Association.
They pay some of the members' salaries.
What for?
To create an opposition
to the national parties.
Honestly. if it helps us
secure a position in this whole thing...
They really believe
I have a chance to be mayor.
Your friend. Anwar Yacoub.
do you share his views?
No. I do not.
Anwar doesn't exist.
The Zionists want articles
offering a different point of view
in the Arab papers.
They know
people wouldn't be influenced
unless they thought
a Palestinian wrote it.
Those articles were written by the Zionist
Commission and translated to Arabic.
I agreed for just a couple.
and that's finished.
How long will they make us wait?
Let's hope for good news.
Someone to celebrate
our independence?
Finally our own government.
Unbelievable.
It's started.
They must have heard.
Come on. boys.
Come on.
Go for it.
Come on. boys.
ARMY FORCES SURROUND VILLAGES.
ARRESTS OF ARMED REBELS CONTINUE.
We must continue to unite
to defend our lands!
Our collective unity
will lead to the end of British and French
imperialism in our lands.
We fight for our independence!
You are the descendants of this land!
If they shoot me.
if they arrest me.
if they deport me.
who will take my place?
With every one of us they shoot
our numbers grow!
We are one free people!
The people of Syria stand with you!
The people of Lebanon are with you!
Iraqis. Druze. all Bilad al Sham.
we stand together.
We say to the colonisers:
The Arab Nation is one nation.
and Palestine
is a part
that won't be cut from us.
Long live the revolt!
Victory to the revolt!
- Victory to the revolt!
BRITISH LOSE CONTROL OF NABLUS
The villagers
are getting worn down by the raids.
Some don't want to be involved anymore.
That's exactly what they want.
The resistance is winning.
We've taken back control
not just here. but also in Hebron.
Bir Al-Saba. And Jerusalem.
What do you think. Afra?
I want to go.
Goodbye.
What?
You tell me.
For the first time in my life.
I'm afraid to die.
Who gives birth never dies.
Where does that put you?
Here.
News! News!
- Ahmad Canaani?
- Yes.
"A sweep of arrests
after rebels assassinated
"the British District Commissioner
of the Galilee.
"The Palestinian leadership
has been decapitated and exiled."
"The Arab Higher Committee was
declared illegal and has been disbanded."
"Five Arab leaders were arrested
"and deported to the Seychelles
in the Indian Ocean.
"including Yaqub al Ghusayn.
Hussein Fakhri Al Khalidi."
"Fu'ad Saba and Ahmed Hilmi Pasha."
"British authorities arrested
Awni Abd al Hadi and Izzat Darwaza."
British authorities arrested
Awni Abd al Hadi and Izzat Darwaza
and imprisoned them
at Sarafand al-Amar detention camp.
British authorities are on alert
for they believe that Abd al Qadir al Husseini
has clandestinely returned to Palestine.
All borders with Palestine
have been sealed.
telephone lines
to neighbouring countries cut.
and 320 rebel leaders are being held
in a concentration camp near Acre
without trial or charge.
Father! Get up!
I'm not moving from here.
- Get up!
- We have to move.
Come. Kareem.
You go.
Protect the child! Go!
Go. my daughter. go!
I'll deal with your father.
Please go.
We'll follow.
Go!
Go now!
Leave!
Men here.
Women there.
- Where are the bandits?
- There are no bandits.
No one knows anything?
Where are the mukhtars?
Traitor!
Traitor! Shame on you!
We know who you are from your shoes.
you lowlife!
A lowlife!
This is our home.
Run and don't stop.
Do not return here. do not look back.
Dogs.
We will never leave.
Damn you! Leave me alone!
Let go of me!
Let me go!
Mama. please!
I beg you to leave!
You need to move out!
These are my parents!
Rabab!
Father. mother!
Why did you come back?
As Qassam preached
better to die a martyr!
What are you doing?
Continue. I'll follow you.
Afra!
Afra. hide.
Hide!
Don't be scared.
Take care of the kids.
Stay strong for the family!
You lowlife. you coward!
Be a man. take care of yourself
and tell the truth.
Take care of your siblings.
Stand up.
There is work to be done.
It's not the first time. nor the last.
Why didn't you go with the others?
Afra only knows to find me here.
Take care.
Down with colonialism!
Revolution!
Are you Yusuf's brother?
Yes.
Tell Yusuf that Ahmad Canaani
sends his regards.
- Welcome back.
- Thank you.
Can we go home now?
What are you doing. Khuloud?